# Changes from 1.4.6 to 1.4.7 

- fixed STAR memory allocation issue, now user can run with fewer cpus without a worry for STAR spawning multiple tasks causing out of memory issue. Propagated memory parameter through out the src. Also in this commit made separate bin/RNAsik file that is a bash wrapper. I was hopping to avoid

- added bin dir and executable, bash script to sort problem of no getting bds html report, removed shebang from RNAsik source, update RNAsik vers
ion number

- fixed gff3 file extension error

- introduces optional parsing/passing of multiqc config file. If location of multiqc config is know user can append it sik.config and pass it that way. Of course user can always pass it as additional parameter with -extraOpts flag. Default was left the same, which was no config file look up 


- renamed sikMakeIndecies to sikRefFiles as this is more appropriate name for it. Changed location of samplesSheet.txt, now it is located in refFiles directory

- fixed bug in alignerReads function. Added new feature of guessing and generating samplesSheet.txt file if -samplesSheet is empty, otherwise users input is used

- completely removed fqRegex and added sanity check for paired end data. If R2 is found and -paired isn't set or vice verse then error message sent

- introduced other aligner - bwa to do bacterial RNAseq. Also simplified help menu. Removed fqRegex support and paired end guessing. Now use has to explicitely pass -paried. Also in this commit improvements on fastqc function

- working on simplifying the code, removed guessing the data type, user simply needs to pass in -paired if it is so

